so dr. lo of you you must be listening
to this an alarm bells ringing because
you know better than most people they're
actually not not the shop brought to
items which actually are meant to be
used for a different purpose but some of
these may be market for things have got
ingredients in them which are damaging
yeah I think that's the big problem in
fact you've got all sorts of different
ingredients in these unregulated skin
lightening products and these can
include things like mercury they can
include things like mixtures of quite
dangerous ingredients there's actually
no single one that's approved for use in
this country they have to be prescribed
if you're going to prescribe them for
something like the dark scars that
Angela got from a dermatologist Vera
pharmacist but for regular use they're
completely unregulated there was about
there's an interesting survey done by
the Skin Research Foundation recently
which said that which found the 30% of
all people with skin of color want to
look lighter so it's a major cultural
drive and and what are some of the side
effects I mean look we're talking like
immediate they like the immediate look
and having this cream on and so that's
instant and it's there and that's all
good and well but long-term damage I
mean what are the dangers of things well
interestingly some of the true lightness
don't work instantly Maihi uses
something that's a little bit different
that's more of a cosmetic yeah surface
Lightner but the true light nose can
give you coincidentally and ironically
they can actually darken the skin and
you can give you permanent disfigurement
permanent darkening something that we
see as a slaty grey darkening of the
skin can thin the skin they can thin the
skin if they contain steroids they can
give you actually kick cancers if you
apply them enough there's some major
toxicity major problems liver damage and
what a lot of these unregulated products
do to get them to work as as well as
they can possibly work they couple the
several ingredients together so you're
getting a really triple or double whammy
of toxic ingredients the problem is that
if this is a cultural thing this is a
belief that you know the lighter your
skin the pretty you that you are the
more affluent you look certainly in your
society in your clothes when you were
talking about and there no amount of
worries or threats or concerns about
that young girls from is it discussed it
would knowing all of that would that
make a blind bit of difference to anyone
else be honest in an Asian community
even a big Bollywood star think of the
Hollywood actors a big Bollywood star
even was the face for a lightning
product but if you had if you had if you
had a daughter yeah example now a
hearing that could you I mean even for
yourself through vanity for your child
wouldn't you just be like you cannot do
this choice no I wouldn't let them do it
since I've obviously I've grown up a lot
now and I think when I was younger has a
lot more darker and as I've grown up
I've kind of signed to love my skin I
kind of do it once a month now out of
laziness but I probably wouldn't because
I think it's the fault of the media that
make you feel like that well I guess I
mean we sort of spend our days saying
well it's irresponsible for girls look
so thin in magazines and blah blah I
know but then each culture has their own
yeah it just got back from a lecture
tour from in India about a week ago and
I was staggered to see the whiteness of
the television presenters it was really
interesting it was a real cultural thing
the higher class is so called yes the
class system as you know is still very
much exist that the light of the skin
what do you what is it as a final word
of warning wonder what do you say I
think the answer is not to use any
unregulated product and to remember that
the ones that are containing these
ingredients actually are only available
or should be only available on
prescription